PETE LEPAGE: The
IndexedDB 2.0 standard
is now fully
supported in Chrome,
and features new schema
management, bulk action
methods, and more standardized
handling of failures.
Progressive web apps
become more immersive,
with display full screen,
allow top navigation by user
activation, give sandboxed
iFrames new powers,
and there's plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 58.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The structure of
your site's database
has large performance impacts,
and can be difficult to change.
IndexedDB 2.0 changes that.
Updates, object
stores, and indexes
can now be renamed in
place after refactoring.
Binary keys allow
for more natural keys
without worrying about
performance penalties.
Data retrieval is easier
with GetKey, openKeyCursor,
and continue primaryKey methods.
And bulk recovery
of entire datasets
no longer needs a cursor
with getAll and getAllKey.
When progressive web apps are
launched from the Android home
screen, they launch in a
standalone app-like mode
that hides the Omnibox.
This helps create an
engaging user experience,
and frees up screen
space for content.
However, for even more
immersive experiences
like games, video players,
and other rich content,
mobile UI elements
such as the system bar
can still be a distraction
and take up valuable pixels
that you may want.
Now, you can make your
progressive web app feel more
immersive by setting
display:fullscreen in your web
app manifest.
When your app is launched
from the home screen,
all non-app mobile UI
elements will be hidden.
Chrome 58 now supports
the new iFrame
Sandbox keyword, allow top
navigation by user activation.
When triggered by
a user interaction.
This keyword gives
sandboxed iFrames
the ability to navigate the
top level page while still
blocking auto-redirects.
And of course,
there's plenty more.
Say goodbye to
the clearfix hack.
Instead of manually resetting
multiple layout properties
like float and
clear, you can now
add a new block
formatting context
using display flow-root.
PointerEvents.getCoalescedEvents
allows you to access all input
events since the last time a
pointer event was delivered--
perfect for when you need
a precise history of points
for things like drawing apps.
And workers and shared workers
can be created using data URLs,
making development with
workers more secure
by giving them an opaque origin.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 58
for developers.
Check the description
for more details,
including links to
the docs and specs.
If you enjoyed this video, check
out the new Designer Versus
Developer video
series that tries
to solve the challenges
faced when designers
and developers work together.
Then click the Subscribe
button, and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 59 is released,
we'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.